ABBY: Previously on Dance Moms...
It's broken.
Four to six weeks she can't dance.
No.
I want Kendall
and Mackenzie to get beat.
I did not have an affair with my boss.
-CHRISTI: Yes, you did!
-(bleep) you. I did not, you (bleep).
I'm giving you an opportunity,
and you're (bleep) all over me.
Abby's gonna tell you
you're doing a solo, and you're not.
CATHY: What are you guys
going to do for me?
Win.
ABBY: Don't screw anything up.
Go out there and beat them.
-CATHY: They don't go to school.
-Shut up.
Because my daughter is smart.
Don't tell me to shut up.
Take your little technicolor ass
and get out of here.
ABBY: Coming up on Dance Moms...
This is the 2012
Abby Lee Dance Company concert.
You're getting thrown
to the wolves, woman.
I'm going to chew you up
and spit you out.
-Just be prepared.
-She wins every number you put her in.
-I don't know what else to do.
-You left.
So we left. That's right.
You always have excuses
why your kids get what they get.
Maddie, I asked you to do a solo,
you said no,
I'm giving this part to Chloe.
You need AA meetings.
You're a (bleep) liar.
Don't let the door
hit your (bleep) on the way out.
Honey, you can't afford a door.
That's the problem.
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪Get up♪
♪Get on the floor♪
♪My world is with my girls♪
♪Living on the dance floor♪
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Come on, girls. Let's go.
Let's go, let's go, let's go.
Starbound's national champions.
Congratulations.
Give them a round of applause.
(applause)
Overall high score, small group.
Beating Cathy.
EMCEE: 2012 Myrtle Beach
Top Junior (indistinct)
I am very proud.
Now let me get to the pyramid.
I'm going to start at the bottom.
Paige, you're injured.
You're there
because you didn't dance.
There's nothing really
to judge you on.
Next, Maddie.
I asked you to do
a solo, you said no.
Maddie's doing a solo this weekend.
It's too late in the game.
I'm not--I'm sorry, Abby.
ABBY: People don't tell me no.
That was an opportunity you missed.
CHRISTI: You know,
I don't really know
if it's fair to Maddie or not.
All I know is our kids have been
on the bottom of the pyramid
for lesser sins than that.
Next, Chloe.
We wanted a clean sweep,
a tenth of a point.
(applause)
ABBY: The next time
we come up against that kid,
I want you
to make mincemeat out of him.
Do you understand that?
Next, Brooke.
Brooke, we didn't get the bonnets
till the last minute.
Your job was to get that bonnet,
put it on Maddie's head,
and tie it.
That was a crucial part of the routine.
And you did it.
And then Mackenzie.
Not only did you beat a boy,
you beat two boys.
And on top of the pyramid again is Nia.
(cheering)
ABBY:
Nia, it doesn't always have to do
with the dancing and the performance.
It has to do with all the other stuff
that goes into it.
Abby, Kendall deserves
to be on that pyramid.
ABBY: Okay, first of all,
you have to understand,
Kendall is here
because she is replacing Paige.
The minute Paige is ready
to dance, Kendall's out of here.
Well, you could have told me that
three weeks ago before we started.
Why?
Once again,
Jill got a little spicy with me.
Why does she think she can just
walk back into my dance studio
and get her kid
back on the competition team?
You walked out.
You went to my enemy.
You're going
to have to beg, Jill.
She wins
every number you put her in,
but she's not on the team.
I don't know
what else to do, honey.
I'm sorry, because I would not
have put you through this.
Putting her through what?
She just went
to a competition and won her duet.
She learned something.
She was fabulous.
JILL: She's a winner,
but you still won't put her on the team.
The team part,
that's about commitment.
And your mother's
always ready to jump ship,
just like she was just now.
Understood?
I'm going to tell everybody
in this room right now,
I don't want any altercations.
I don't want tears.
I don't want screaming, yelling.
This is a very big week.
We are doing the 2012
Abby Lee Dance Company concert.
It is not a competition,
but it is equally important.
This is our opportunity
to showcase
all of the dancers in the studio.
They get to perform
all of the routines
that they've competed
throughout the season.
The concert is also
a great opportunity for me
to market my studio
to the general public.
Hey, I'm trying to get
new students out of this.
We are going to be doing a routine.
The routine is called
"Light My Fire,"
and it's hip-hop.
MADDIE: This week
our group dance is hip-hop,
and I'm really excited.
But none of us can hip or hop.
ABBY: Now, Paige, it's been weeks.
I think that you are capable
of performing in this hip-hop routine.
KLLY: She has to get approved
by the doctor first.
ABBY: Absolutely.
But it's going
to be with the boot on.
I got strict instructions
from the doctor
that she is to do
no dancing until four weeks.
We still have
another week to go.
ABBY: Kelly, you're an original member
of the Abby Lee Dance Company.
I would like to see
some of your classmates at the show.
My God, I haven't seen them
in 20-some years.
ABBY: I want those people
to see that the Abby Lee Dance Company
is alive and healthy and strong
and continuing
to educate children.
Okay.
ABBY: Now, there's something else
we're doing.
There will be one person
chosen from each age level
to win a very generous
cash scholarship.
This is the very first time
that the Abby Lee Dance Company
Parents Association
has been in the position
to give out scholarships
to continue their dance studies.
All right, ladies,
you're dismissed.
Girls, spread apart.
I'm going to start
this number right now.
One, two, three.
I want everyone in the audience
to realize that these girls
can do it all.
So my girls are going to be doing
a hip-hop routine.
Whatever it takes,
the Abby Lee Dance Company
is a full service studio.
And two and three and four
and five and six and seven.
My girls hate hip-hop.
JILL: Well, how do they know
if they've never taken it?
I'd love to watch
Paige hip-hop, though.
-I have to tell you.
-Paige is funny.
She's like a wet noodle out there.
So who are you
going to ask to come?
I have no contacts
with any of my alumni.
There are so many people
who hate Abby that won't come back.
Like, I'm going to call them
and they're going to be like,
why in the world are you calling me?
If I can't get people to come,
it's going to be my fault.
And my kids are going to be put
at the bottom of the pyramid
once again for something I did.
Why didn't she just call them?
ABBY: Teachers told me
that the day you got that boot on,
you were doing cartwheels,
you were doing tinsicas,
you were trying to do
front walkovers in it.
I rode the bus home
with you two weeks ago,
and you were up
and down and up and down
and up and down that aisle
the entire time for three hours.
Do you like having a vacation
and not dancing?
I don't really look forward
to recital time or concert time.
-Me neither.
-Oh, really? I love it.
HOLLY: I find it to be an incredibly
stressful and painful experience.
-Me, too.
-HOLLY: It's right up there.
I think I'd rather have a root canal.
The annual ALDC concert is exhausting.
It's a time filled with highs and lows.
We are all running on fumes.
I can't get up.
Come on.
JILL: It's not fair to my child.
She can have a duet
and win and a group
and be in a winning group.
And it has nothing to do
with her talent or her dancing.
-You left.
-So, we left. That's right.
-You left. So now you have to wait...
-And we're back.
...until it comes time
for auditions again to audition again.
Did your daughter leave the team
to go try out for cheerleading?
She didn't leave the team.
She asked permission to try out.
JILL: Oh, Kelly, you always have excuses
why your kids get what they get.
Going to a different studio,
Jill, is totally different.
-JILL: No, it's not.
-KELLY: Yes, it is.
-She went to a different studio...
-And she left for one week.
You left for months.
JILL: Well, it's not different.
(upbeat music playing)
Go into Studio A. Okay, babe?
Hey, you.
How are you?
What are you doing here?
You know,
I'm trying to come back.
Why would you do that?
Why would you put yourself through this?
Well, it's not me.
It's Kendall.
It doesn't matter.
What is she going to get out of this?
You know,
when I started this studio,
Kelly and Christi got to me.
You have no idea
what Melissa did to me.
They're never going to accept you.
And I don't like them,
and I don't think you like them.
Who are you going
to have on your side?
You're going to be
all by yourself.
You're going to just have
to defend yourself constantly
and your daughter constantly.
I couldn't tolerate them before.
I'm not going to tolerate them now.
Then why are you here?
Then what are you doing?
For Kendall.
This isn't about me.
And it was for Paige. It doesn't work.
-That's right.
-It's not going to work.
When I saw Jill
going into the studio,
I thought it was fair
that I would just forewarn Jill
that these women
will just chew her up and spit her out.
These women are brutal liars.
It's not like Jill doesn't know
these people.
Christi's a snake.
Melissa's a liar.
And Kelly's a snake.
Do you ever see
their husbands around?
They talk about their husbands
like they don't even exist,
or they don't want them to exist.
Well, they probably
don't want them to exist.
Kelly talks sexually about men, and...
It's pigs.
JILL: I can't believe the words
that are coming out of Leslie's mouth.
Melissa might want to lose
her friendships,
her morals, her marriage...
-She doesn't have one right now.
-...for these women.
You have no idea
how it happened, do you?
-What, the divorce?
-Yeah.
Okay, let me tell you.
You ready for this one?
It's the day before Halloween.
Payton and I
are taking my nieces to Melissa's house
to go trick or treating.
And all of a sudden,
Melissa comes out and goes,
you know what, Leslie,
I don't have any Halloween bags
for the kids
to go trick or treating.
And I'm like, well, I have--
she goes,
no, they like this certain kind.
And I told them I'd go get them
down at this pharmacy down here.
I'm like, okay. So we get in the car,
and we pass the pharmacy.
And she looks at me and says,
I want you to meet somebody.
And I pull into this driveway,
and there's this gentleman standing there.
And she says,
this is the man I'm in love with.
JILL: Leslie's acting
like a total immature baby.
They're like high school bullies.
You know,
they have this fake relationship
in front of each other.
And behind each other's backs,
they're talking about one another.
Find another group
for her to dance with.
This isn't about me.
I'm coming back
to put my daughter in class.
You're getting thrown
to the wolves, woman.
They are going to chew you up
and spit you out.
Just be prepared.
(quirky music playing)
CATHY: Somebody sent me tickets
to Abby's recital.
Now, who would have
sent these to us?
Should we go?
They invited us.
It would be kind of funny,
though, because some of you
have never really been to other recitals
to see how awful it is
compared to ours.
Since I've been invited
to Abby's recital,
I would like
to bring some of my moms
to come witness what thrown together is
just to make money.
And Rhonda can take notes
on dos and don'ts of a bad recital.
I can't imagine
that her recital compares to ours.
There's no way.
WOMAN: Well, you put on
a very good show, so.
Not only am I, like,
mystified as to who sent these,
but I'm also laughing
because they're paper print-out tickets.
We can sit and watch her boys
and see how many pique turns they do.
And it would be a quick laugh.
I'm always up
for a good laugh.
(laughs)
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Come on.
Don't you watch any videos?
Big move.
Bigger.
This week rivals any dance competition.
This is our 2012
annual dance concert.
I expect you guys
to bring something to the table.
This show is so important to me.
It's a combination
of my entire year's work.
My reputation is on the line.
I'm trying to tell
the whole city of Pittsburgh
that you're great at hip-hop,
and I'm not seeing great at hip-hop.
Start again.
And I want you to sizzle.
I want you to burn rubber
across that stage, and I'm not seeing it.
Some of the students
you're going to see
on stage at my dance concert
you will see tomorrow
on a Broadway stage.
So it's very important
that I show the city of Pittsburgh
and the surrounding areas
what we have to offer.
KELLY: Is Paige
really improv-ing with her boot?
Just shake your boot, Paige.
ABBY: Two, two, three, four...
KELLY:
The doctors X-rayed Paige's foot.
And we were given permission
from the doctor to walk.
We were not given permission to dance.
So my agreement with Abby was for Paige
to do the dance
from the waist up.
ABBY: Six, seven, eight.
Cross and hit.
One of the reasons I chose hip-hop
was so that I could incorporate Paige.
She can do
all the upper body movement.
She can hit all the isolations.
I am disappointed.
I want something new,
something innovative,
something clever.
If you're not going
to look hot on stage,
I'll get somebody that will.
CHRISTI: Abby is insane.
I have to say that our, you know,
beautiful, graceful,
lyrical dancers
aren't exactly
the typical hip-hop prototypes.
CHRISI: Payton!
Is Payton here?
Come in here.
Payton is a longtime student
at the studio.
She is one of my best hip-hop students.
I'm teaching them
a hip-hop dance.
The star of the show.
ABBY: Seven, eight.
One, two, three, four.
Well, who didn't know that was coming?
ABBY: Do you see the isolations?
Hip-hop, she's listening
to what I'm saying, and she did it.
And you guys stand there and giggle.
You know,
is she (indistinct) to make them all
feel badly about themselves?
Yeah, for that.
But you're the ones
that get to go away every weekend.
You're the ones
that get a new solo every weekend.
Would you like to be
in our hip-hop dance for the show?
-Yes.
-ABBY: All right.
KELLY: It just irritates me that, like,
she's never been on our group
when we did a dance
that she's not good at.
Now that Payton's added
to the hip-hop routine,
that just means that Leslie
is one more addition to my week of hell.
ABBY: Two, three, four, and up, and exit.
Breathe.
Stamina.
Let's put the rocks out for "Trapped."
CHRISTI: These kids learn these dances
sometimes in a day.
And now they have to remember
every dance they've done
to perform in her dance concert?
That's a lot to ask
of these little girls.
When we did the "Trapped" number
for competition,
I called it "Trapped"
because that was the name of the music.
And there's a little girl,
and she's homeless.
I need to teach Maddie a lesson.
She's not always going to get the lead
or the best spot in the dance.
You know, I asked that kid
to do a solo, and she said no.
So you know what, Maddie,
you don't need to be featured
in any of the numbers.
Maddie, I asked you to do a solo,
you said no,
I'm giving this part to Chloe.
She's switching
Chloe and Maddie out.
-For what?
-For this "Trapped" dance.
-I wonder why, though.
-I don't know.
To torture Maddie
for not doing her solo last week.
Oh, really?
CHRISTI: I think Chloe
is really excited to show Abby
that she can dance
a featured role like "Trapped"
and do it well.
Abby's now giving away
four scholarships
to further your dance education.
I think Chloe deserves
a scholarship.
-Everyone's replaceable.
-Right.
Especially you.
CHLOE: We were in "Trapped" rehearsal,
and Miss Abby
switched Maddie and I's parts.
And now I guess
I'm in the homeless child.
So I'm kind of nervous,
but I don't want to not take
that kind of opportunity.
ABBY: And One, two, three..
MADDIE:
Since I didn't do a solo last week,
Miss Abby got mad at me
and switched my part
with Chloe in "Trapped."
And it's kind of sad for me,
because I really loved my part.
And I loved acting it out.
ABBY: I didn't think
that was too bad, Chloe. Good job.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Okay, ladies.
Let's get this--this down pat.
This is our 2012
annual dance concert.
We have lots
of routines, quick changes.
Go, John.
My students need
to be smart dancers.
Nina, look over your shoulder.
I call all the cues
from the light booth in the balcony.
All right,
let's go with this from the top.
Catherine's on stage.
I'm wearing a headset,
trying to communicate with Gianna
and my stage crew.
Everybody is waiting
on my instructions
on what move to make next.
We have to get through
the technical aspects of the show.
The better the kids are
when they come out
and the smarter they are,
the faster things move.
At the end of the dance concert,
we are going to present
these scholarships on stage.
The kids are doing their very best
to impress me
right up to the very second
that these scholarships
are distributed.
SINGER:
♪On the hunt, on the prowl ♪
♪ You (indistinct) my animal out♪
♪They bring the place...♪
Hey, hey, hey.
I have read bra tops
for the hip-hop number.
And I have red hats.
So you're going to have
to figure out how these stay on.
Now, girls, they're calling you
down to the stage right now
for the hip-hop dance.
So what we're going to do
is we're just going to do it in this,
and then later tonight
we're going to run it in the costumes.
Understood?
Did you run that
already for lighting?
-Yes, I did.
-ABBY: Yes?
So we're doing
the hip-hop dance first.
Hurry up. Throw a black leotard on
and your boots.
PAYTON: I'm in 15 numbers this year,
and every single number I'm in
has a quick change.
I don't get how Abby expects me
to make it out in time.
KELLY:
Question about the hip-hop dance.
-What?
-I was under the impression
that Paige was just going
to be doing upper movements.
-So did I.
-KELLY: Arm movements and stuff.
-That's what I told her.
-Well, she obviously
was not just doing upper movements
because she broke her boot.
Pfft.
I'm rehearsing three shows in one day,
and I am too busy
for any mother
or any kid to interrupt my plans.
Is anyone in children in elite point?
Payton?
No, that doesn't work.
All right.
I'm going to need a minute to fix this,
so let's just go
with this hip-hop number.
You're in the fire
with all the smoke.
SINGER: ♪Middle of the night,
I can hear your heart beat♪
♪Calling out my name♪
Abby.
Did you see the lineup
that Payton's in?
She can't do that.
No, there's no way.
Janine, take care of her.
We understand. We're fixing it.
But we can't fix it right this second.
We have to wait
till we have a break.
-I get that.
-ABBY: Everybody here is getting paid.
I get that. But this is my schedule, too,
that I have...
I know, but you
shouldn't even be in here.
Because right now
you're wasting my time.
Leslie couldn't wait till I figured it out
that we needed
another number added in
so that Payton could make a change. No.
This is just not all about her.
It's about all the kids.
No, it's about whether she can make it
on stage in one number.
That's what it's about.
Well, she better make it on stage
in one number.
Every other number?
You have her in one number
before that with ballet.
I just came up
and asked you to correct the line-up.
-That's all.
-I know. But you have a smart-ass mouth.
No, I didn't.
You turned it into that way.
You shouldn't be in here.
This is off limits.
LESLIE: I got what I got accomplished,
and now I will go.
-ABBY: Go.
-Thank you for changing it.
James, "no parents," write it on there.
P-A-R-E-N-T-S,
maybe she can figure it out.
Ladies, I need to remind you,
absolutely no parents in the lightbox.
Everybody up here is doing a job.
I'm seriously, ladies.
(upbeat music playing)
SINGER: ♪Oh, light my fire♪
ABBY: That was it right there.
That's not right.
Paige, there's really not a lot
of footwork.
Now, if you can't do
the inverting your knee
or the digging
or the bevelling,
you can still do from the waist up.
Payton's really drawing
my eyes downstage.
I didn't even look at the boot.
But I'm not concerned
about you seeing the boot.
I'm concerned about the foot
being broke in the boot.
Our agreement was she could dance
from the waist up.
Well, then just do the arms, Paige.
Modify it.
So when you walk out to your spot
at the beginning--
let's take it from the top.
She looks like an idiot.
You still have to bend.
This is stupid.
-She can't do that.
-No.
Sorry.
ABBY: Don't do the feet, Paige.
Just do those arms big.
KELLY: Is she still doing, like,
where she kneels down
and goes to push-up position
and kneels back down and stands up
and stuff.
Because that's all right on the part
of her foot that's broken.
ABBY: Kelly takes it upon herself
to scream from the audience.
Paige needs to sit down, her poor foot,
she needs to sit down.
Well, you know what,
you can go home and sit down.
Go over there on that part quickly.
I have about two more minutes
to spend on this.
KELLY: I don't want you
to have to redo this whole dance.
Paige just doesn't need to be in it.
Am I allowed to come up there?
ABBY: No, I need to start again. Paige.
Paige.
She said it hurts.
She's sitting down.
She can't stand up.
We're getting ice.
Okay.
KELLY: My agreement
was for Paige
to do the dance
from the waist up.
I mean, I had strict instructions
from the doctor,
no dancing for four weeks.
I know you want to.
You can't injure it more
and not be able to do nationals.
I have to step up being a mom,
and Paige's health is way more important
than being in a stupid dance.
ABBY: Well, what do you want to do?
Do you want to try
to change the dance?
Do you want to modify it?
Do you want to sit in the fire?
Do you want to not do it at all?
Do you want to get a new boot?
-It's her year-end dance concert.
-KELLY: I know.
ABY: I don't want her
to spend the whole time
-sitting in the audience.
-I know.
So if you're fine and dandy
and you can go out there
and you can do it
and the boot is supporting you, fine.
If you don't want to do it at all, fine.
I'm okay with both.
Honey, I just don't have time
to re-choreograph
-a dance on stage from...
-Well, that's what I'm saying.
I don't want you to have
to re-choreograph it.
-I just...
-ABBY: All right?
And if it comes to you
having to change everything,
she might as well just not do it.
All right.
On with the show.
-Why did she practice last night?
-I don't know.
To not let her down?
Leslie, she was supposed
to only dance
from the top up
and be a statue in the back.
-So why didn't she do that?
-Well, I wasn't at rehearsal,
and they were teaching it to her.
Well, I was at rehearsal,
and she didn't speak up.
I said it once.
And they told...
LESLIE: I didn't hear you.
Why did she show up
for the rehearsal
if you knew that's the only number
they were practicing?
Because she was supposed
to be in the number, Leslie.
LESLIE: Everybody knows that hip-hop
is a really hard dance.
You know, you're up, you're down,
you have to bend your--
you know, you bend at the knees.
You're hopping, you're jumping.
And I'm a little surprised
that she is still in it,
being that Kelly pulls her kids
out of umpteen numbers time after time.
I don't unders--if she's hurt,
why was she supposed to be in the number?
Abby wanted her in the recital.
So she was supposed to stand
in the back of the number
and dance from the waist up at the fire.
LESLIE: Were you one of the mothers
that was in there videoing it?
No, I was not.
Okay, well, everybody else was.
And if I would have known,
I would have told you.
I was there videoing.
And so were all these other mothers,
if they would have told you.
KELLY: I was hoping to not have to deal
with Leslie this weekend.
I have enough pressure on me
at the dance concert right now.
You know, I have a daughter
with a broken foot.
I have another one
who has a bad back.
And I just can't deal
with Leslie right now.
HOLLY: She's not supposed
to be dancing. The doctor...
I get that. But I'm very confused
after she was in the rehearsal last night.
I don't get...
Leslie, it's none of your business...
-LESLIE: Okay, Kelly.
-...what I do with my kid.
LESLIE: You know what,
add that meeting to your list.
You need AA meeting.
And now you need to go
and see a therapist.
So now you got two meetings
that you should be attending.
And you're a (bleep) liar.
Don't spread another lie...
Go ask your daughter
if she really pushed my--you lied.
No, I didn't. Go get my daughter
and bring her in here.
Yeah, and I did...
(indistinct chatter)
LESLIE: Kelly can never
even elaborate on why
Payton supposedly pushed Paige down.
It's all lies.
These women are brutal liars.
They're liars.
Let's go get them.
You're a liar.
(indistinct chatter)
I'm not following you.
Bring her right here.
Maddie and Paige
are best friends.
(indistinct) (bleep).
-KELLY: Courtney, can you do me a favor?
-Yeah.
Go get Brooke
and tell her to go to my car.
Yes.
KELLY: If Abby wants Leslie
and Payton on this team,
then she can have them.
But I am not sitting in a dressing room
and having somebody
sit and attack me
after everything I say.
So if Abby wants Payton,
you can have her.
And guess what.
They're your friends, aren't they?
See where that gets you, too, Melissa.
First incident
that I started not to trust you.
Kelly, where are you going?
LESLIE: I don't have any reason
to sit in this room.
And every once in a while,
these women throw their little dig.
I'm not going to sit back and take it.
MELISSA:
What are you going to do now?
I'm gonna go home.
MELISSA: What about them?
I'm not doing it.
-What, the recital?
-No.
MELISSA: We'll call you after. Okay.
Can you please just tell
Brooke to come out?
Yes, I'll do it.
I don't care.
-I'm here just for Payton to dance.
-JILL: Right.
So let it go in one ear
and out the other.
No. I'm not that kind of person.
KELLY:
I don't have a problem with the drama.
But when Leslie (bleep) lies
-every other word out of her mouth...
-MELISSA: Mm-hmm.
-...that's when I have a problem.
-MELISSA: She does lie. She does lie.
Not one thing she has said has been true.
I mean, it's over.
She is definitely not coming back.
I mean, I swear on my mother's grave.
Everything that you and I
have said is true.
No, that's not--
what are you talking about?
Our kids are good enough
to go on that stage
without a highland on there
and just dance the dance
without reblocking.
Like, they can reblock it right on stage.
Abby will flip.
-Kelly.
-I hope everybody does good.
Okay, I'll miss you, girl.
Okay. See ya.
JILL: Abby needs to know,
because this is her show.
This is her reputation.
-We better go tell her.
-MELISSA: This is her show.
-Someone needs to tell them.
-MELISSA: It's not our show.
CHRISTI: She's pissed.
LESLIE:
You know, I don't need it anymore.
So you know what?
She can have the upper hand.
She got it.
I'll leave. I'm done.
We have a really big problem.
Kelly and I kind of went at it,
and she quit.
And she took all her bags and left.
So what are we going to do?
If Kelly has a tantrum,
she needs to walk away
and honor her children's contracts.
They were to be there
from beginning to end.
LESLIE:
I feel bad about the girls.
Tomorrow is the Abby Lee Dance Company's
annual dance concert.
Kelly better have those
two kids here or else.
(soft upbeat music playing)
KELLY: After I heard that Leslie wasn't
going to be back in the dressing room
and wasn't going to be around me
at all at the recital,
I decided it was time to celebrate.
(cheering)
(chattering)
KELLY:
Let's do another shot.
Oh, my.
Here's a little punch for you.
I can't.
We're pouring drinks.
We're enjoying the company
and the eye candy.
(party screaming)
(indistinct) for that.
(chuckling)
No, she's loaded.
This actually turned out
to be a really good night.
Here, put this in your kitty.
Thank you.
We had fun.
I don't think I can do any more shots.
-JILL: Come on, come on.
-MAN: Yes, you can!
After the week we've had,
we all really just need
a night to let loose.
Thankfully Leslie is not coming back.
(cheering)
HOLLY:
No, no, no, no! Jill!
(cheering)
(upbeat music playing)
MELISSA: Come on, Kenz.
Come on. Chop, chop.
It's the day of the concert.
And we're all excited.
I think, you know, I have little
butterflies in my stomach for the girls
to make sure that I can do
all these quick changes.
Very, very exciting day.
GIRLS: (cheering)
-HOLLY: They're back.
-GIRL: (screaming)
The kids really would
have been disappointed
-if your kids weren't here.
-KELLY: That's why we're here.
-I was definitely...
-MELISSA: Thank you, of course.
...not going to let Leslie
run me out of the group.
She's too combative
and nasty all the time.
ABBY: Brooke, get over here.
I want to talk to you for a second.
I went to rehearse,
and you weren't around yesterday.
Brooke needed to be here to run the cues.
You can't let that happen again.
If your mom gets in a fight with somebody
and she wants to leave,
you need to say,
let me stay for the rest of the time
and Dad can come pick me up.
I wasn't going to come today,
and this is why I'm here.
I didn't even think.
I just left.
It's very, very important
that you be on the money today.
Every dance aficionado in Pittsburgh
is going to be here.
So it's imperative that
you step out there
and give me your best.
I am not going to let these crazy mothers
get in the way of my livelihood anymore.
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: There are people lined
up outside to get in.
There could not have
been a better turnout.
There's a bit of a frenzy backstage
with all these quick changes.
I have an excellent crew,
and the kids are thrilled to get on stage.
I am not going to let those mothers
interrupt one thing during the show.
Rhonda, you have your notepad.
We're writing all of the things down
that we wouldn't wanna do in our recital.
I'm not expecting any type of real theme.
I'm not expecting anything that
is, I guess, Broadway style.
I'm just expecting to see
a recital or concert.
I'm expecting to see just one number
after the other happen.
Oh, my God.
We're in the nosebleeds.
ABBY:
And now, without further ado,
I am proud to present the members
of the award-winning
Abby Lee Dance Company
in "Once in a Lifetime."
(cheering and applause)
(dance music playing)
ABBY: Girls, please listen.
There's a ton of colleagues
that are dance teachers
that I'm sure are snooping around
and looking for ideas.
So let's make sure that we get out there
and we do our very best.
What about Paige?
Paige, what's the deal with you?
Are you ready to dance?
Are you going to do it?
Yes.
You have to hit it hard.
Show everybody that you can do it all.
Get down there quick
and make sure those hats are on tight.
(dramatic music playing)
CATHY:
There's a hip-hop number coming up.
And for some reason,
I'm just not thinking of Abby
as a Grandmaster Slim.
So I'm really excited to see this.
("Light My Fire" playing)
SINGER:
♪ Middle of the night ♪
♪ I can hear your heart beat ♪
♪ I know what you're looking for ♪
♪ I know what you need ♪
♪ Baby, it's right here with me ♪
-♪ I know what you're look for... ♪
-I told every girl
in that hip-hop number
I wanted fire.
What did I get?
Lukewarm.
SINGER:
♪ Oh, come and light my fire ♪
♪ Come and light my fire ♪
♪ I know what you're looking for... ♪
And nothing is worse than sitting
and watching little girls come out
who are incorporating their jazz
and trying to call it hip-hop.
SINGER:
♪ Light my fire ♪
♪ Light it ♪
(cheering and applause)
CHRISTI: I think that "Light My Fire"
proved to Pittsburgh,
if you want to learn hip-hop,
don't come here.
(upbeat music playing)
Girls.
What are you doing out there?
It was like, bum, ditta, bum,
ditta, bum, ditta, bum, ditta.
It was like a contagion.
Get into that hit.
The part I told you to work
on didn't get any better,
and the ending that has
to really be impressive--
once you hit a note, the music,
boom, don't move.
Come on. Let's go.
Chloe is playing the role
that Maddie usually has.
She better step it up
because that role is important,
and this number is beautiful.
When you get out there,
you need to convince everybody
in that audience
that you are homeless.
This is your moment.
Make it your moment.
CHLOE: I kind of felt a lot
of pressure for "Trapped"
because I just got selected
for the lead role.
And I only had a little bit
of time to rehearse it.
So I didn't want to be
the one to mess up.
ABBY: Let's do it.
JILL: We're having an issue.
What's the matter, Kendall?
I need to get ready.
(sobbing)
JILL: Settle down.
I know you're tired.
We're all tired, sweetheart.
I know.
And it's important to you.
JILL:
Why are you ripping your hair?
Because I hate you right now.
JILL: Oh, sweetie. It's okay.
I need to get dressed.
JILL: It's okay.
(jazz upbeat music playing)
Chloe getting the featured role
in "Trapped" this week
is kind of a catch-22.
I'm thrilled that she is finally
getting this amazing role
in a great dance.
But on the other hand,
Maddie has already performed this role.
And so Chloe is always going
to be compared to Maddie.
So if anything goes wrong,
Abby is going to throw it back in her face
like, "Mm, Maddie was better."
SINGER: ♪ Trapped inside
these four white walls ♪
♪ Waiting for someone to call ♪
♪ Something's gonna have to give ♪
♪ And I don't know when ♪
♪ Seems it's taking far too long ♪
♪ I've been stuck on this same song ♪
♪ Promise me you won't follow... ♪
No backdrops.
SINGER: ♪ 'Cause I've gone
down the wrong road ♪
♪ And I've lost my own way back ♪
Chloe does the lift,
rolls over Brooke's back,
up to the beautiful arch,
holds it, then down.
I gave her a correction,
and she did it.
Thank you, Chloe.
SINGER: ♪ Gather dust
as I try to search within ♪
♪ 'Cause I've gone down
the wrong road ♪
♪ And I've lost my own way back ♪
♪ It's all my fault ♪
♪ I can't hide it ♪
I thought Chloe was fabulous.
And I think that she deserves
to have more lead roles.
SINGER:
♪ I can't fight it ♪
(applause)
-You've seen enough?
-Yeah.
Let's go.
Candy Apple's dance recital is top notch.
And Abby's recital is nothing
to the degree of our recital.
(cheering)
Congratulations!
Fabulous performance.
You put on a wonderful show,
Miss Abby.
Thank you, thank you,
thank you.
It was great.
They did a great job.
They were outstanding
from beginning to end.
Oh, thank you.
Thank you so much.
She really wants Kendall
on the pyramid.
Jill, you know, you tried the whole
gift thing with Abby before.
Two dozen long stem roses. Really?
It's been a long few days.
Like, you're making me
a little sick to my stomach.
Congratulations to you all.
That's what doing a show is like.
I think we may have gotten
some new students
from your performances,
so I appreciate that.
Remember, you're only as good
as your last performance.
(applause)
(cheering)
Overall, I think our girls
did a fabulous job
in the dance concert.
They had a lot on their plates,
they stepped up to the challenge,
and they were beautiful.
(applause)
(cheering)
Overall, I think the dance concert
was a success.
Amazing.
I mean, Abby has amazing kids.
And she's an amazing choreographer.
She knows how to put a show together.
That's for sure.
(cheering and applause)
We are giving cash scholarships away
to further your education.
And this was decided upon
by the entire faculty.
Our junior winner is
Miss Maddie Ziegler.
(cheering and applause)
This will go to who the faculty feels
is the most improved student
in the Abby Lee Dance Company
for the 2012 season.
Miss Nia Frazier.
(cheering and applause)
I am so happy that Nia won
the Most Improved scholarship.
This--this is wonderful for her.
This is a moment we have
all been waiting for,
that Abby finally recognizes
what I've seen all along.
ABBY:
Thank you all for coming.
We will see you outside.
Thank you.
(cheering and applause)
(upbeat music playing)
We cap off the evening
with a beautiful soiree
out on the veranda.
And this is a highlight
of the dance concert.
Hey, how you doing?
I was very nervous about
meeting with these alumni.
I thought, "Oh God, I'm not even
going to recognize them."
You know, but I really
had a good time.
Thank you.
You were here last year, too.
KELLY:
Abby, I need to know,
did the alumni talk
any bad stuff on me?
I haven't talked to the alumni yet.
(laughter)
Had it been under different
circumstances,
I'm sure that every one of those alumni
would have had a story about Kelly
and how much they hate her.
Was Kelly ever late?
ALL: Yes!
Did Kelly ever not show up?
Was Kelly naked all the time?
ALL: Yes!
(laughter)
(chuckling)
Is Kelly fun?
(crickets)
(chuckling)
Is that woman delusional or what?
-Hi, nice to meet you.
-Hi.
-Miss Miller?
-ABBY: Yes.
-This is Nicaya.
-Hi.
Nice to meet you, sweetie.
We're looking for a new
studio to compete.
-Where are you from?
-St. Louis.
St. Louis?
KAYA: I think Nicaya has something
to offer your team.
Okay. We're having a little
workshop in the studio.
-Mm-hmm.
-So why don't you come?
You can come take a little
tour of the studio,
and she can take class,
and I can observe her during class.
So do you have room
on your competition team?
I always have room.
There's never enough students.
It's been an outstanding show.
And now I want to sit back and relax
and enjoy my evening,
when all of a sudden
I hear this agitating grating voice.
We, you know, groom you
into becoming part
of our competition team.
I'm footing the bill for this,
and she was not invited.
All I know is she has no
business being anywhere
near my customers.
Technically her dancers were amazing.
But did you feel that, like,
the steps were somewhat limited?
Like, not a whole lot of choreography
going on?
You know what, I need to tell you,
you sound like you would
make a dandy Apple.
-Yeah, she would.
-(laughter)
We're a little wilted
because there wasn't a whole
lot of air conditioning--
There was air conditioning.
There was just a lot of hot air.
(laughter)
Thank you so much for having us
invited to this lovely show.
-I didn't know you were invited.
-I have--
Yes, you invited us.
We got tickets from you.
Not from me.
How did she get here?
I don't see a broom in sight.
No backdrops.
-Black curtain.
-No.
No money on your end?
Come on, you gotta step it up.
Did she fly in?
Who knows?
-We have the (indistinct)
-JILL: Aren't you glad guys
-I invited Cathy?
-And we have (indistinct)
Aren't you glad guys
I invited everybody in?
And they're--and they're all--
and they're all--
Listen! Listen, she's the one
that invited us.
I invited Cathy
because I wanted her to see
how Kendall fits in
with this team.
-Oh, Jill invited you.
-I invited them.
I wanted them to see
what we've all been up to.
CATHY:
Your tickets are paper.
Jill, use your brain.
Why would she bring
my arch rival enemy
in to my own show?
To steal my ideas?
To steal your music?
We only saw five minutes of your show,
and that was enough,
so--but thanks for the great reception.
ABBY: You're welcome.
Don't let the door hit your
(bleep) on the way out.
Oh, honey, you can't afford a door.
That's the problem.